.TH "debug.h" 3 "6 Jul 2010" "GPU_simulations" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
debug.h \- 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
\fC#include 'assert.h'\fP
.br
\fC#include <stdio.h>\fP
.br

.SS "Defines"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBdebug\fP(cmd)   { if(\fB_debug_verbosity\fP > 0){ cmd; } }"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBdebugv\fP(cmd)   { if(\fB_debug_verbosity\fP > 1){ cmd; } }"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBdebugvv\fP(cmd)   { if(\fB_debug_verbosity\fP > 2){ cmd; } }"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBbeenhere\fP()   { if(\fB_debug_verbosity\fP > 2){ fprintf(stderr, 'Been here: %s line %d\\n', __FILE__, __LINE__); } }"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Functions"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBdebug_verbosity\fP (int level)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBdebug_getverbosity\fP ()"
.br
.RI "\fIdefault is 1 \fP"
.in -1c
.SS "Variables"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fB_debug_verbosity\fP"
.br
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
\fBAuthor:\fP
.RS 4
Arne Vansteenkiste 
.RE
.PP

.SH "Define Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "#define beenhere()   { if(\fB_debug_verbosity\fP > 2){ fprintf(stderr, 'Been here: %s line %d\\n', __FILE__, __LINE__); } }"Prints 'Been here: ' with the corresponding file and line number. Only for verbosity 3. 
.SS "#define debug(cmd)   { if(\fB_debug_verbosity\fP > 0){ cmd; } }"Prints a debug message that is considered generally useful and displayed by default 
.SS "#define debugv(cmd)   { if(\fB_debug_verbosity\fP > 1){ cmd; } }"Prints a debug message that is only useful when we are specifically debugging. It is not displayed by default, but only when the verbosity level is at 2 or higher 
.SS "#define debugvv(cmd)   { if(\fB_debug_verbosity\fP > 2){ cmd; } }"Prints a debug message that is annoying or printed a lot, like inside a loop. It is not displayed by default, but only when the verbosity level is at 3 or higher 
.SH "Function Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "int debug_getverbosity ()"
.PP
default is 1 
.SS "void debug_verbosity (int level)"Setting the verbosity controls how many debug messages are displayed.
.PP
.IP "\(bu" 2
The default, 1, means only \fBdebug()\fP messages are shown.
.IP "\(bu" 2
Level 2 is more verbose: also \fBdebugv()\fP messages are shown.
.IP "\(bu" 2
Level 3 means full verbosity: even \fBdebugvv()\fP messages are shown, which may cause a huge amount of output.
.IP "\(bu" 2
Level 0 means be silent, show no messages at all.
.PP
.PP
Example: 
.PP
.nf
    debugv( fprintf(stderr, 'size = %d \n', size) );
    beenhere();     // Prints: 'Been here: file XXX.c, line YYY (only for verbosity 3)

.fi
.PP
.PP
\fBNote:\fP
.RS 4
Do not worry about performance. When compiling with NDEBUG defined, all debug messages are suppressed and the compiler should throw away the calls to empty functions. (todo) 
.RE
.PP

.SH "Variable Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "int \fB_debug_verbosity\fP"
.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for GPU_simulations from the source code.
