.TH "param.cpp" 3 "6 Jul 2010" "GPU_simulations" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
param.cpp \- 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
\fC#include 'param.h'\fP
.br

.SS "Functions"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBparam\fP * \fBnew_param\fP ()"
.br
.RI "\fINew param with default values. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBcheck_param\fP (\fBparam\fP *p)"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "double \fBunitlength\fP (\fBparam\fP *p)"
.br
.RI "\fIThe internal unit of length, expressed in meters. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "double \fBunittime\fP (\fBparam\fP *p)"
.br
.RI "\fIThe internal unit of time, expressed in seconds. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "double \fBunitfield\fP (\fBparam\fP *p)"
.br
.RI "\fIThe internal unit of field, expressed in tesla. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "double \fBunitenergy\fP (\fBparam\fP *p)"
.br
.RI "\fIThe internal unit of energy, expressed in J. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "void \fBparam_print\fP (FILE *out, \fBparam\fP *p)"
.br
.RI "\fIPrints the parameters. \fP"
.in -1c
.SH "Function Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "void check_param (\fBparam\fP * p)"checks if the parameter list has acceptable values. 
.SS "\fBparam\fP* new_param ()"
.PP
New param with default values. 
.SS "void param_print (FILE * out, \fBparam\fP * p)"
.PP
Prints the parameters. 
.SS "double unitenergy (\fBparam\fP * p)"
.PP
The internal unit of energy, expressed in J. 
.SS "double unitfield (\fBparam\fP * p)"
.PP
The internal unit of field, expressed in tesla. 
.SS "double unitlength (\fBparam\fP * p)"
.PP
The internal unit of length, expressed in meters. 
.SS "double unittime (\fBparam\fP * p)"
.PP
The internal unit of time, expressed in seconds. 
.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for GPU_simulations from the source code.
